# distriubuted-truth-verifier

We are at a point in human history where the civilization’s future depends on truthfulness. If at the early stage we teach the autonomous systems to lie, we might as well forget about any type of alignment if even between ourselves we cannot reach consensus. I really want to create a modern lie detector that would use an arbitrary reference point such as Bitcoin Timechain. It would improve the judicial systems in the world as well as allow creating really secure private AGI that you can trust.

I believe it is possible to build Brain-to-Machine interface coupled to Bitcoin Timechain layers, which will ensure secure and remote steering of machines. Systems of this type would be impossible to take over by unauthorized people or hostile autonomous AI.

The first step to build an autonomous system aligned with the system of human values is to define the fundamental moral principles acceptable by all participants of the system. We can assume the overarching objective is to seek the truth. Identifying truth and lie is the basis of the system alignment, thus, any verification mechanism is the axis of agreement. Bitcoin creates distributed verifiable control sums, ideal for the guardians of truth. Bitcoin is an arbitrary guarantee of the information which falsification is secured in a special way – it is simply not profitable to falsify the information. The focus should be to scale the Bitcoin Timechain block layers in a way ensuring the security [guardrails] of the autonomous systems while building the private AGI’s in the future. One of Bitcoin’s best features is to transparently unify people for a good cause – it just needs to be used the right way.
